<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author>&Rik.Hemsley; &Rik.Hemsley.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2003-09-28</date>
<releaseinfo>3.2</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>kwin</keyword>
<keyword>window</keyword>
<keyword>border</keyword>
<keyword>theme</keyword>
<keyword>style</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>
<sect1 id="window-deco">
<title>Window Decoration</title>

<sect2>
<title>General</title>

<para>This module allows you to select a style for the borders around
windows.</para>

<para>Each style has a different look, but also a different
<quote>feel</quote>. Some have (sometimes invisible)
<quote>resize</quote> borders all around the edge, which make resizing
easier but moving more difficult. Some have no borders on certain
edges. One (<quote>BII</quote>) even has a dynamically sized and
positioned title element.</para>

<para>You are encouraged to experiment with the different styles until
you find one which best suits your pattern of work.</para>

<para>Choose a window decoration style from the drop down box at the
top of the screen to see a preview of it in the lower pane.</para>

<para>If there are any configurable options for the theme you chose on
the first page, they will become available below the preview...</para>

<!-- 
<para>In particular, if you chose to use the IceWM theme, you can choose
here which of the many IceWM themes to use.  The IceWM theme has
instructions on the page as to where you should copy the theme files,
and once this is done, you can simply select the theme you want to
use.</para>
-->

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>Buttons</title>

<para>This page has instructions directly on it - just drag around the
buttons until you have the order that makes you comfortable.</para>

<note>
<para>Not all the window decorations are able to comply with your custom
set button order.  The ones that cannot are being converted, but at the
time of this release they have not been all been changed.</para>
</note>

<para>Apart from choosing the window decoration itself, you can choose
here two further options: If there should be a tooltip while you hover
your mouse over a window decoration button, and if the window
decoration should attempt to use a custom set button order.</para>

<tip>
<para>The tooltips can be quite useful if you have set a custom button
order, and then changed to an unfamiliar window decoration.</para>
</tip>

<tip>
<para>For accessibility purposes, some window decorations support
extra wide borders.  If this is available, you can also choose a
border size here.  These large borders are easier to see for low
vision users, and easier to grab for people with limited mobility or
difficulty using a mouse.</para>
</tip>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>
