<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author>&Krishna.Tateneni; &Krishna.Tateneni.mail;</author>
<author>&Jost.Schenck; &Jost.Schenck.mail;</author>
<author>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2002-09-01</date>
<releaseinfo>3.1.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>email</keyword>
<keyword>e-mail</keyword>
</keywordset>

</articleinfo>
<sect1 id="e-mail">
<title>Email</title>


<sect2 id="email-intro">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>The email module of the &kcontrol; allows you to enter and save some
basic email information. This information is used when performing functions
related to email within &kde;, for example, when sending bug reports from the
&kde; crash handler application.</para>

<para>Programs such as &kmail;, which are used for reading and sending
email, may offer many more options for customizing the way in which
email is handled. These options depend upon the specific program being
used.  &kmail;, for instance, offers its own configuration
facilities.</para>

<para>Some of the information needed for configuring email should have
been provided by your internet service provider
(<acronym>ISP</acronym>). If you are connected to a local network, then
the system administrator of your network should be able to help
you.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="email-use">
<title>Use</title>

<para>&kde; automatically establishes some of the information for this control module 
using the
login information on the system. You will need to enter the remaining information.</para>
<para>Looking at the page from top to
bottom, the options are:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Full name</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Type your full name as you would like it to appear in the email
messages that you send. </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Organization</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If you work for a company or
organization, you can enter its name in this text box.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Email address</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>To be able to use email, you must enter your email
address here.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Reply-to address</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If replies to your email messages should be sent to a different
address, you can enter that address in this text box.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>

<!-- Keep this comment at the end of the file
Local variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
sgml-parent-document:index.docbook
End:
-->

