<!--
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd">
-->

<chapter id="desktop">
<title>The desktop</title>

<qandaset>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I add an application to the desktop?</para>
</question>
<answer>

<para>Just choose the desired application from the <guimenu>K</guimenu> menu and drag and drop it to the Desktop.
</para> 
<para>For applications not listed in the <guimenu>K</guimenu> menu, 
use the &RMB; on the desktop and choose <menuchoice><guimenuitem>Create New</guimenuitem>
<guimenuitem>Link to Application...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> and fill in the configuration for the application you want to link to.
</para>

</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I mount/unmount a device from the desktop?</para>
</question>
<answer>

<para>First, make sure you are allowed to <command>mount</command>/<command>umount</command> the relevant device as a user. 
</para>
<para>Then you can add any device by clicking on the desktop with the &RMB; and then choosing <menuchoice><guimenu>Create New</guimenu><guisubmenu>Link to Device</guisubmenu></menuchoice>. Select the device of the type you wish to control. Fill in the settings for the device in the dialog that appears and click <guilabel>OK</guilabel>. You can use the resulting desktop icon to mount/unmount the device from the desktop.  
</para>

</answer>
</qandaentry>


<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Where are the icons kept?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>The icons can be found only in <filename
class="directory">$<envar>KDEDIRS</envar>/share/icons</filename> or <filename
class="directory">$<envar>HOME</envar>/.kde/share/icons</filename>.  To use icons
stored in other locations, you must either copy them into one of the
above-mentioned fixed &kde; locations or make symlinks.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I use the mouse scroll wheel in &kde;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Mouse wheel support comes with &Qt; 2.0 and above, so &kde; based on
that will automatically support the use of the mouse scroll wheel if your system is configured correctly. Check that your &X-Server; settings support the use of a scrollwheel if it is not working.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I launch applications in a particular desktop?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>&kde; comes with a program called &kstart;.
To start an <application>xterm</application> on the second desktop and then activate it use:

<userinput><command>kstart</command> <option>--desktop 
2 --activate --window "xterm" </option>xterm</userinput>.</para>
<para>Note that the <option>--window</option> option is important. It takes an
argument which is a regular expression matching the title of the window to
apply the settings to.</para>
<para>Please read <command>kstart</command> <option>--help-all</option> for more magic
available with &kstart; (and there is an abundance).
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Where do I save my files if I want them to appear directly on
the desktop?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para><filename
class="directory">$<envar>HOME</envar>/Desktop</filename>.  You might
need to refresh your desktop after you have saved your files.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>I've deleted the Trash icon on my desktop. How can I get it
back?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Right-click on the desktop and in the context menu that appears,
choose <menuchoice><guisubmenu>Create
New...</guisubmenu><guimenuitem>Link to Location (URL)...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>. Set the <guilabel>File name</guilabel> to
<userinput>Trash</userinput> and the location to
<userinput>trash:/</userinput>. Click on <guibutton>OK</guibutton> and
you're done.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

</qandaset>
</chapter>

<!-- Keep this comment at the end of the file
Local variables:
mode: xml
sgml-omittag:nil
sgml-shorttag:nil
sgml-namecase-general:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:true
sgml-parent-document:("index.docbook" "book" "chapter")
sgml-exposed-tags:nil
sgml-local-catalogs:nil
sgml-local-ecat-files:nil
End:
-->
