<!-- <?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd"> -->
	
<chapter id="filemanager">
<title>The File Manager</title>

<para>&kde;'s file manager is &konqueror;.  The
&konqueror; home page is located at <ulink
url="http://www.konqueror.org">http://www.konqueror.org</ulink> where a
&konqueror; specific <acronym>FAQ</acronym> can be found.</para>

<qandaset>


<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How can I change the appearance of a folder in
&konqueror;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Right-click the folder, select <guimenuitem>Properties</guimenuitem>,
click on the large icon in the dialog which appears, and choose another
icon.</para> <para>To change the icon displayed for entries in the
<guimenu>K Menu</guimenu>, use the <application>Menu Editor</application>,
accessed by clicking with the &RMB; on the &kmenu; icon and selecting
<guimenuitem>Menu Editor</guimenuitem> from the menu.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How can I do non-anonymous &FTP; transfers with &konqueror;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Normally, if you enter a &URL; like
<userinput>ftp://<replaceable>ftp.example.com</replaceable></userinput>,
&konqueror; will attempt an anonymous login to the &FTP; server.  If you
want to login as a particular user, enter a &URL; like
<userinput>ftp://<replaceable>username@ftp.example.com</replaceable></userinput>
instead.  &konqueror; will ask for your password and connect to the
server.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>


<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I specify the startup folder for &konqueror;?</para>
</question>
<answer>

<para>Using the &RMB;, click on the Home icon and choose
<guimenuitem>Properties</guimenuitem>.  Under the
<guilabel>Application</guilabel> tab you will probably find something like
<command>kfmclient openProfile filemanagement</command>; just append
<filename class="directory">file:/whereever/you/want</filename> with the
folder you would like &konqueror; to start in.</para>

</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I rename files?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Simply <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click on the file and select
<guimenuitem>Rename</guimenuitem> or press the keyboard shortcut <keycap>F2</keycap> with a file selected.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Where did the delete entry from my right-click context menu go?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>In &kde; 3.4 the delete context menu entries that bypass the
trashcan are no longer displayed by default. To enable them, go to 
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
&konqueror;</guimenuitem></menuchoice > and select
<guilabel>Behaviour</guilabel> in the iconbar to the left. Tick the checkbox
<guilabel>Show 'Delete' context menu entries which bypass the
trashcan</guilabel>.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question><para>How do I configure the programs that &konqueror; uses to
open different types of files?</para></question>
<answer>
<para>In order to configure file associations, you should go to the
&kcontrolcenter; and choose the item <guimenuitem>File
Associations</guimenuitem> under the category <guimenu>KDE
Components</guimenu>.</para>
<para>
Suppose the default <acronym>PDF</acronym> viewer is now &kghostview; and
you would prefer to use <application>KPDF</application> as a viewer. You
would simply type <userinput>pdf</userinput> in the search box at the top of
the dialog, choose <guimenuitem>pdf</guimenuitem> in the
<guimenu>application</guimenu> group and move
<application>KPDF</application> up. In the <guilabel>Embedding</guilabel>
tab you can also choose which component other applications will use to
display files (for example, when viewing files in &konqueror; or using
&ark;'s embedded viewer).
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How can I configure &konqueror; to open files with double-click
instead of single-click?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>In the &kcontrolcenter;, go to
<menuchoice><guimenu>Peripherals</guimenu><guimenuitem>Mouse</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
and in the <guilabel>General</guilabel> tab, select
<guilabel>Double-click to open files and folders</guilabel>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>


<qandaentry>
<question><para>When I try to click on a folder in &konqueror;, I get the
message: <quote>There appears to be a configuration error. You have
associated Konqueror with inode/directory, but it cannot handle this file
type.</quote></para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>You need to make sure that the embedding settings for inode/directory
are correct:
<orderedlist>
<listitem><para>In &konqueror;, go to
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
Konqueror</guimenuitem></menuchoice> and then to the <guilabel>File
Associations</guilabel> page.</para></listitem> <listitem><para>Open
inode->directory in the tree view.</para></listitem> <listitem><para>Click on
the
<guilabel>Embedding</guilabel> tab. Make sure that <guilabel>Left Click
Action</guilabel> is set to <guilabel>Show file in embedded
viewer</guilabel>, and by default <guilabel>Icon View (konq_iconview)</guilabel>
is at the top
of <guilabel>Services Preference Order.</guilabel></para></listitem>
</orderedlist>
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry> 
<question> 
<para>What are <option>%i</option> and
<option>%m</option> in the Execute line?</para> 
</question> 
<answer><para>They are used by all &kde; applications (since they are implemented in
<classname>KApplication</classname> and all good &kde; programs create a
<classname>KApplication</classname> object before they even look at the
command line arguments).</para> <para>A standard line for a &kde;
application looks like this: <userinput><command>foo</command>
<option>... %i %m -caption \"%c\"</option></userinput>.  Pretty confusing,
-but it has been designed in that way so that it can integrate legacy,
non-&kde; applications as smoothly as possible.  &konqueror;, when executing
the line above, will extend the command to
<userinput><command><replaceable>foo</replaceable></command> <option>-icon
something.png -miniicon something_mini.png -caption \"The
Foo\"</option></userinput>.  Both the icon and the mini-icon as well as "The
Foo" are properties defined in the <filename>.desktop</filename> file.  If
the icons are not defined, they simply default to the executable name
<replaceable>foo</replaceable>.</para>
 
<para>This way a user can change these things in &kmenuedit; for his or her
applications.  The <option>-caption</option> option is important, because no
user will accept that the menu item <guimenuitem>Editor</guimenuitem> starts
something called <guilabel>kedit-0.9pl4-build47</guilabel>.  Instead, he
expects a window called <guilabel>Editor</guilabel>.  Furthermore these
names are localized, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> an American user launches
<guimenuitem>CD-Player</guimenuitem> and gets a window called
<guilabel>CD-Player</guilabel> while a German user launches
<guimenuitem>CD-Spieler</guimenuitem> and gets a window called
<guilabel>CD-Spieler</guilabel>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question><para>How do I make &konqueror; start up without a menu bar?
I can't save a view profile when the menu bar is invisible!</para>
</question>

<answer><para>The easiest way to do this is to edit &konqueror;'s
configuration file manually. Add the following lines to
<filename>~/.kde/share/config/konquerorrc</filename>:
<programlisting>
[KonqMainWindow]
MenuBar=Disabled
</programlisting>
</para>

<para>On restarting &konqueror;, the menubar should be hidden.</para>

</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para><acronym>JPEG</acronym> files no longer show previews in &konqueror; (and I've installed CrossOver Office)
</para>
</question>
<answer><para>
CrossOver creates new &MIME; types that will override the default
image/jpeg and image/jpg times. In &konqueror;, go to
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
Konqueror</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>, and then to <guilabel>File Associations</guilabel>. Find the
application/x-crossover-jpg and application/x-crossover-jpeg entries,
and remove them. Then hit <guibutton>OK</guibutton>. This problem is
reported fixed in the latest version of CrossOver.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

</qandaset>
</chapter>

<!-- Keep this comment at the end of the file
Local variables:
mode: xml
sgml-omittag:nil
sgml-shorttag:nil
sgml-namecase-general:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:true
sgml-parent-document:("index.docbook" "book" "chapter")
sgml-exposed-tags:nil
sgml-local-catalogs:nil
sgml-local-ecat-files:nil
End:
-->
