<!--
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd">
-->

<chapter id="getting-kde">
<title>Getting &kde;</title>

<qandaset>

<qandaentry>
<question id="where-to-get-kde">
<para>Where do I get &kde;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<!-- This needs a rewrite including informations about the latest version (link to the info page?)-->
<para>The main distribution site for &kde; is 
<ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/">ftp.kde.org</ulink>. However, this site is
often under heavy load, so you might prefer to use 
<ulink url="http://download.kde.org/">download.kde.org</ulink> which automatically
redirects you to the mirror nearest to you.
You can also have a look at the list of <ulink url="http://www.kde.org/ftpmirrors.html"> &kde; mirror sites</ulink>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para> Are there &Linux; distributions that include &kde;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Yes, major &Linux; distributions already ship &kde;.  As
building a distribution takes some time, they might not always contain
the latest version, but for a start or to avoid downloading from the
Internet, they do provide a good starting point.
</para>
<para>You can find an up-to-date list of distributions that ship
with &kde; <ulink url="http://www.kde.org/download/distributions.php">here</ulink>.
</para>

</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>What is the current version?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Currently, the latest stable version is 3.5.5</para>
<para>The <ulink url="http://www.kde.org/info/3.5.5.php">&kde; 3.5.5 Info
Page</ulink> contains a lot of information specific to this
release.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Where do I find &kde; snapshots?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>You can get the latest snapshots
from <ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/snapshots">ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/snapshots</ulink>.
You might also want to consider setting up your
own <acronym>SVN</acronym> client in order to maintain the latest
snapshot at all times.  Please refer
to <ulink
url="http://developer.kde.org/source/anonsvn.html">Anonymous <acronym>SVN</acronym>
and &kde;</ulink> for further information.
</para>

</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question id="where-to-get-qt">
<para>Where do I get &Qt;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>&Qt; is a product of the Norwegian company Trolltech.  You can
always get the latest &Qt; version from their 
<ulink url="ftp://ftp.trolltech.com">&FTP; server</ulink>.</para>
<para>
And with most up-to-date &Linux; distributions, &Qt; is already
included.  Please see <xref linkend="prerequisites"/> for the version
of &Qt; you need.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>


</qandaset>
</chapter>
