<!-- if you want to validate this file separately, uncomment this prolog:

<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd">

-->

<chapter id="not-kde">
<title>Not really &kde;-related, but frequently asked nevertheless.</title>

<qandaset>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I change the screen resolution?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Use <keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;&Alt;<keycap>+</keycap></keycombo> and <keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;&Alt;<keycap>-</keycap></keycombo> to cycle through
the resolutions you have defined in <filename>XF86Config</filename> (maybe under
<filename class="directory">/etc/X11</filename>; poke around first).
If you prefer to get your hands dirty, you can always edit the file
directly.  By placing your favorite resolution at the beginning (or
making it the only one listed), &X-Window; will always start up with that
resolution.
<caution><para>Always make a backup copy of your <filename>XF86Config</filename> file
<emphasis>before</emphasis> you start editing it.  Errors in this file
can render &X-Window; unusable.</para></caution>
<note><para>These instructions are only valid if you are running
version 3.3.x of the XFree86 server.  If you are running XFree86 4.x,
you must consult with the <ulink url="http://xfree.org">XFree86(TM):
Home Page</ulink>.</para></note></para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I change the color depth?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>There is no way you can do this on the fly.  You can either
start &X-Window; using <command>startx <option> -bpp
<replaceable>number</replaceable></option></command> where
<replaceable>number</replaceable> can be 8, 16, 24 or 32, depending on
the depth you want. Alternatively, if you are using
<application>xdm</application>/&kdm;, you
need to edit
<filename>/etc/X11/xdm/Xservers</filename> (may vary) and enter
<userinput>:0 local /usr/X11R6/bin/X -bpp 16</userinput> for 16 bit color
depth.</para>
<para>You can also edit the <filename>XF86Config</filename> file and add a line
like <userinput>DefaultColorDepth
<replaceable>number</replaceable></userinput> to Section "Screen".
The next time you start X, it will run with the newly-configured color
depth.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>What can I do if I am using a 2-button mouse?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Go buy a 3-button one, or use third button emulation.  The third
button is emulated by pressing both the &LMB; and the &RMB;
together.  You would need to enable <option>Emulate3Buttons</option>
in your <filename>XF86Config</filename> file. </para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>What is a "sticky" window?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>In a virtual desktop environment with multiple virtual desktops, a
"sticky" window will stay put on the screen when you switch between
desktops, as if sticking to the glass of the screen.
<application>Xclock</application> is a typical candidate for sticking,
as you need to run only one instance of it, and it always stays with
you. </para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>


<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I extract/install diff files?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>To generate a context-diff suitable for patching, use
<command>diff -u <replaceable>old-file new-file</replaceable> &gt;
<replaceable>patchfile</replaceable></command>.  To apply the diff to
a file (<abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> "patch the file"), execute
<command>patch &lt; <replaceable>patchfile</replaceable></command>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I get &Linux; to mount the floppy device for use with both
DOS and ext2 formatted floppies?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Just specify the filesystem type as auto in
<filename>/etc/fstab</filename>.  Auto detection works fine for DOS and
ext2.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I start &kde; with the <keycap>Num Lock</keycap> on?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Open the &kcontrolcenter; and navigate to <guimenu>Peripherals</guimenu><guimenuitem>Keyboard</guimenuitem>. Under the section <guilabel>NumLock on &kde; Startup</guilabel> move the radio button to select <guilabel>Turn on</guilabel></para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I take window or desktop screenshots?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Use &ksnapshot;.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Is there a tool to make webpages?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Yes, and there are a lot of them out there, including
<application>StarOffice</application>, <application>&Netscape; Composer</application>, and
<application>XEmacs</application>.
There are also many &kde; applications.  To find the most current
list, go to <ulink url="http://kde-apps.org">kde-apps.org: The
Latest in &kde; Applications</ulink> and search for <emphasis>web
development</emphasis>.  Try as many as possible and choose the one
most suitable to your needs.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>What do all those acronyms like AFAIK mean?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para><screen>
AAMOF: as a matter of fact
AFAIK: as far as I know
AISE: as I see it
BFN: bye for now
BION: believe it or not
BRB: be right back
BTW: by the way
CMIIW: correct me if I am wrong
FUD: fear, uncertainty, and doubt
FWIW: for what it's worth
FYI: for your information
HTH: hope this helps
IIRC: if I recall correctly
IMHO: in my humble opinion
LOL: laughing out loud
MYOB: mind your own business
PITA: pain in the ass
ROTFL: rolling on the floor laughing
RTFM: read the fine manual
SOP: standard operating procedure
TIA: thanks in advance
YMMV: your mileage may vary
</screen></para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
</qandaset>
</chapter>
