<!-- <?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd"> -->

<chapter id="webbrowser">
<title>Webbrowsing with &konqueror;</title>
<para>&konqueror; is &kde;'s open source, standards compliant webbrowser.
It's home page is
<ulink
url="http://www.konqueror.org">http://www.konqueror.org</ulink> where a
&konqueror; specific <acronym>FAQ</acronym> can be found.</para>

<qandaset>

<qandaentry>
<question><para>Where does the name &konqueror; come from?</para></question>
<answer><para>It's a word play on the other browsers' names. After the Navigator and the Explorer comes the Conqueror; it's spelled with a K to show that it's part of &kde;. The name change also moves away from <quote>kfm</quote> (the &kde; file manager, &konqueror;'s predecessor) which represented only file management.</para></answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question><para>Can I run &konqueror; without running &kde;?</para></question>
<answer><para>Yes. Just install &Qt;, kdelibs and kdebase, and from your favorite window manager just launch &konqueror;. It should work just fine, but if it doesn't (&kde; developers don't test that case often), report it to http://bugs.kde.org and try running "kdeinit" before running &konqueror;, it usually helps. 
This is of course the same for any other &kde; application. </para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question><para>Why doesn't &konqueror; show the contents of an image's <sgmltag class="attribute">ALT</sgmltag> attribute in a tooltip?</para></question>
<answer><para>
There is no standard that states the <sgmltag class="attribute">ALT</sgmltag> attribute should appear as a tooltip. The specification calls for <sgmltag class="attribute">ALT</sgmltag> to be displayed in place of the image, as in text-mode only browsers such at lynx or w3m. Abusing the <sgmltag class="attribute">ALT</sgmltag> attribute is bad for accessibility. Tooltips are supposed to come from the <sgmltag class="attribute">TITLE</sgmltag> attribute and this is implemented in &konqueror;
</para></answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I use &konqueror; as a web browser with a proxy?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>&konqueror; can be used with &HTTP; and &FTP; proxies.  To set
up the proxy server in &konqueror;, just select
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guisubmenu>Configure
&konqueror;...</guisubmenu></menuchoice> from the &konqueror; menu and
go to the <guilabel>Proxy</guilabel> tab.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question id="nsbookmark">
<para>How do I import bookmarks from another browser into &konqueror; ?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>To import bookmarks from another browser into &konqueror; select
<guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu><guimenuitem>Edit Bookmarks</guimenuitem>
and then in the <application>Bookmark Editor</application> select
<guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Import</guimenuitem>. Then select
the browser you would like to import bookmarks from. In the Open dialog,
navigate to the location of the folder or file your bookmarks are
contained in and click <guilabel>Open</guilabel>
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question><para>How can I make &konqueror; only show certain bookmarks in the bookmarks toolbar?</para></question>
<answer><para>In &konqueror; go to <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure &konqueror;...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. Then select <guilabel>Web Behaviour</guilabel> from the icon list. Under the <guilabel>Bookmarks</guilabel> heading, place a check in the box next to <guilabel>Show only marked bookmarks in bookmark toolbar</guilabel>. Now in the <application>Bookmark Editor</application> an option to <guilabel>Show in Toolbar</guilabel> appears on clicking with the &RMB; on any bookmark entry or in the <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> menu when the entry is highlighted. Folders can also be shown in the bookmarks toolbar in much the same way.</para></answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I fool a site into believing &konqueror; is &Netscape; or
some other browser?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>In &konqueror;, select
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
Konqueror...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> and in the configuration
dialog, select <guilabel>Browser Identification</guilabel>. Default
and site-specific browser identifications can be set from here.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>&konqueror; is taking a really long time to load webpages, what
could cause this?</para></question>
<answer>
<para>Quite often &konqueror; loading webpages slowly is caused by
<acronym>DNS</acronym> servers with broken <acronym>IPV6</acronym>
support.  Adding the following to <filename>/etc/profile</filename> or any
other script that is sourced on login should solve this problem:
<screen>
export KDE_NO_IPV6=true
</screen>
for bourne compatible shells, and for C-style shells:
<screen>
setenv KDE_NO_IPV6 true
</screen>
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I configure &konqueror; to run &Java; applets?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Choose
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
&konqueror;...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> from &konqueror;'s menubar
and then select <guilabel>Java &amp; Javascript</guilabel>. Set the
<guilabel>Path to Java executable</guilabel> correctly. If it doesn't
work, please check the <ulink
url="http://www.konqueror.org/javahowto/">Konqueror + Java
HOWTO</ulink>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>


<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I block unrequested popup windows in &konqueror;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>&konqueror; has a new 'smart' policy for JavaScript popups. From the 
&konqueror; main window, select <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure &konqueror;...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> and then
<guilabel>Java &amp; JavaScript</guilabel>. On the
<guilabel>JavaScript</guilabel> tab, under <guilabel>Global JavaScript
Policies</guilabel> set the radio button beside <guilabel>Open new
windows:</guilabel> to <guilabel>Smart</guilabel>.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Why doesn't my banking site work with &konqueror;?  It pops up a new
window with the login screen in other browsers, but not in
&konqueror;.</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
Make sure you have Javascript enabled, and the default JavaScript web popups
policy set to <guilabel>Ask</guilabel> or <guilabel>Allow</guilabel>.  The
<guilabel>Smart</guilabel> policy is not always sufficient for some banks.
Many banks also require &Java; support.  You can find more help on enabling
this at <ulink
url="http://www.konqueror.org/">http://www.konqueror.org/</ulink>.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Can &konqueror; use user-specified stylesheets, like those in the
Firefox adblock extention?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Yes, you can set &konqueror; to use any kind of valid
<acronym>css</acronym> stylesheet to filter webcontent or improve accessibility.
From the &konqueror; main window simply click
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure &konqueror;...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> and select 
<guilabel>Stylesheets</guilabel>. Set the radio button to
<guilabel>Use user-defined stylesheet</guilabel> and browse to where the
stylesheet you want to use is located. Alternatively, you can select
<guilabel>Use accessibility stylesheet defined in "Customize"
tab</guilabel> and then set your own options.</para>
<para>
An example of <acronym>css</acronym> rules that implement ad blocking can be
found at:
<ulink url="http://www.mozilla.org/support/firefox/adblock">
http://www.mozilla.org/support/firefox/adblock</ulink>.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
<qandaentry>
<question><para>
Why does &konqueror; display a plain grey square when I try to view flash animations, even though the flash plugin is installed?
</para></question>
<answer><para>
Under the latest versions of X.org, having the composite extension loaded can cause problems with the flash plugin. Try disabling the composite extension and see if normal flash operation is restored.
</para></answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Why can't &konqueror; render &GIF; images?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>It is because you did not enable &GIF; support in &Qt;.  Please see
<xref linkend="gif"/> for more details.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question><para>When I try to open a web page with &konqueror;, I get the
message: <quote>There appears to be a configuration error. You have
associated Konqueror with text/html, but it cannot handle this file
type.</quote></para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>You need to make sure that the embedding settings for the text/html
<acronym>MIME</acronym> type are correct:
<orderedlist>
<listitem><para>In &konqueror;, go to
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
&konqueror;...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> and then to the <guilabel>File
Associations</guilabel> page.</para></listitem> <listitem><para>Open
text->html in the tree view.</para></listitem> <listitem><para>Click on the
<guilabel>Embedding</guilabel> tab. Make sure that <guilabel>Left Click
Action</guilabel> is set to <guilabel>Show file in embedded
viewer</guilabel>, and that <guilabel>KHTML (khtml)</guilabel> is at the top
of <guilabel>Services Preference Order</guilabel>.</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

</qandaset>
</chapter>


