<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2006-06-24</date>
<releaseinfo>3.5.2</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>taskbar</keyword>
<keyword>configure</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="taskbar">
<title>Taskbar</title>

<sect2>
<title><guilabel>Taskbar</guilabel></title>

<para>The taskbar is a quick way to switch between applications.  The taskbar
can be located in the panel (default), or outside the panel on the
desktop.</para>

<para>This module has options to control how the taskbar operates:</para>

<para><guilabel>Show windows from all desktops</guilabel>, determines
if all open windows are included in the taskbar or not.  By default,
the taskbar only shows the open windows <emphasis>on the current
desktop</emphasis>.  If this option is enabled, the taskbar will show
all open windows <emphasis>on all desktops</emphasis>.
<guilabel>Sort windows by desktop</guilabel> changes the
sort order of the icons on the taskbar, so that windows on virtual
desktop 1 are shown first (to the left, or at the top of the taskbar),
followed by windows on virtual desktop 2, and so on.</para>

<para><guilabel>Sort alphabetically by application name</guilabel> shows
the icons in an alphabetical sort order on the taskbar.</para>

<para>You can have the taskbar <guilabel>Show only minimized
windows</guilabel>.  In this case, when you minimize a window, it will
show up on the taskbar, and when you open it again, its taskbar entry
will disappear.</para>

<para>You can disable <guilabel>Show application icons</guilabel>, and show just the
text.  You might want to do this to save space on your taskbar, for
example.</para>

<para>Using the <guilabel>Show window list button</guilabel> option,
you can enable a little button to be shown in the taskbar: this button
will open a popup menu offering access to applications on other desktops
as well as some useful actions, like <guilabel>Unclutter
Windows</guilabel> or <guilabel>Cascade Windows</guilabel>.</para>

<para><guilabel>Group similar tasks</guilabel> allows
you to save some space on your taskbar, by only showing one icon for
each running application, no matter how many windows are shown.  You can
click on the icon to display a menu of all the windows that are
available.  This is most useful when you have enabled <guilabel>Show windows
from all desktops</guilabel>.</para>

<para>The next option allows you to set the <guilabel>Appearance</guilabel> to <guilabel>Elegant</guilabel>, <guilabel>Classic</guilabel> or <guilabel>For Transparency</guilabel>.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title><guilabel>Actions</guilabel></title>

<para>The next set of options allow you to customize the actions
performed with different mouse clicks on taskbar icons.</para>

<para>You can select any action from the list for the <guilabel>Left button</guilabel>, 
the <guilabel>Middle button</guilabel> and the <guilabel>Right button</guilabel>.</para>

<para>The options available are:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show Task List</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Show the list of tasks grouped under the icon you have clicked
on.  If there is only one task or window for that icon, it will become
the active window.</para>
<para>This is the default action for the &LMB;.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Cycle Through Windows</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If there is more than one task grouped under the icon, switch
from one to the next, until you release the button (&ie; when you have
reached the window you are looking for). If there is only one task or
window for that icon, it will become the active window.</para> 

<para>This is the default action for the &MMB; if window grouping is
enabled.</para>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show Operations Menu</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Show the operations menu for the application.  This allows you
to minimize, maximize, &etc;, move windows between desktops, and close
windows. You can perform these actions on all windows grouped under
that icon, or on any single window, by choosing it from the
submenu.</para>
<para>This is the default action for the &RMB;.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Raise Task</guilabel>, <guilabel>Lower
Task</guilabel>, <guilabel>Minimize Task</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>These three options make sense only if window grouping is
disabled.  They are fairly self-explanatory.  Raise means to make
active, bring to the front, and give focus.  Lower means, send to the
back, and give focus to whichever window is now on top.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>