<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
<!ENTITY kappname "&sonnet;">
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>
<title>Spell Checker</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>&Lauri.Watts; &Lauri.Watts.mail;</author>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2009-11-18</date>
<releaseinfo>4.4</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Spelling</keyword>
<keyword>dictionary</keyword>
</keywordset>

</articleinfo>

<!--
kdeui/sonnet/configui.ui
-->

<sect1 id="spellchecking">
<title>Spell Checker</title>
<para>The configuration options available here are used as default by all &kde;
applications that use &sonnet;, which is a frontend to various free spell checkers.</para>

<para>The configuration options selected here can be overridden by each application.</para>

<para>In the drop down box <guilabel>Default language</guilabel> choose from the 
available dictionaries, which one to use for &sonnet;. </para>

<!-- in case of missing language in the list which apps to install?
HSpell??
<para>(If you do not have <application>Ispell</application> installed
you can obtain it from the <ulink
url="http://fmg-www.cs.ucla.edu/geoff/ispell.html">International
ISpell home page</ulink>.  <application>ASpell</application> is available from the <ulink
url="http://aspell.sourceforge.net/">ASpell home page</ulink>.)
</para>
-->
<sect2 id="spell-options">
<title>Spell Options</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Automatic spell checking enabled by default</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If a mark is placed in this checkbox, the spelling of words will be check in your document 
as you type them. Misspelled will have a red line drawn under them.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Skip all uppercase words</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If a mark is placed in this checkbox, the spelling of any word which consists of all capital 
letters will not be checked.</para>
<tip><para>This is useful for document using a large number of acronyms. If this box is left unchecked, 
most of those acronyms will be incorrectly marked. By placing a mark in this checkbox, 
the acronyms will not be marked as misspelled.</para></tip>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Skip run-together words</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If this box is not checked, then words that appear in the
dictionary separately, but have been run together, are considered to be
spelling errors. Examples of such words are shutout, cannot, and blackout.
</para>

<tip><para>Checking this box will help prevent applications from flagging website and email addresses 
for spelling errors. These addresses often contain words run together.</para></tip>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect2>
<!-- from koffice/kword/opt.docbook 1.6.2--> 
<sect2><title>Ignoring words</title>
<para>The bottom half of the dialog box allows you to designate specific words (they may be specialized terminology, proper names, &etc;) which
should be ignored by the spelling program.</para>

<sect3><title>Adding a word to the ignore list</title>
<para>To add a word, type the word in the text box and click the <guibutton>Add</guibutton> button.</para>
</sect3>

<sect3><title>Deleting a word from the ignore list</title>
<para>To remove a word, select the word in the listbox containing all the currently ignored words by clicking on it with
the &LMB;.  Now click the <guibutton>Remove</guibutton> button.</para>
</sect3>
</sect2>
<sect2><title>Changing the order a word appears in the list</title>
<para>To move a word in the list, select the word in the listbox containing all the currently ignored words by clicking on it with
the &LMB;.  Now click the <guibutton>Move Up</guibutton> button or the <guibutton>Move Down</guibutton> button to move the word
within the list.</para>

<para>When you are happy with the changes, simply click
<guibutton>Apply</guibutton>.</para>

<para>Clicking on the <guibutton>Defaults</guibutton> button restores all
values to their default values.</para>

</sect2>
</sect1>

</article>
