<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author>&Mark.Donohoe;</author>
<author>&Martin.R.Jones;</author>
<!-- <author>&Duncan.H;</author> -->
<author>&Mike.McBride;</author>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2005-01-18</date>
<releaseinfo>3.4</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>background</keyword>
<keyword>wallpaper</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="background">

<title>Background</title>

<para>The Background module allows you to configure colors or wallpapers for
your desktop background.</para>

<para>It is comprised of four areas:</para>

<orderedlist>
<listitem>
<para>Desktop selection area</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>An area for selecting background images</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>The background Preview Monitor</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>An area for determining the background color</para>
</listitem>
</orderedlist>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Selecting the desktop</term>
<listitem>
<para>The drop down box labeled <guilabel>Setting for
desktop:</guilabel> is used to select the desktop you want to
configure.  You can select any of the desktops individually, or you
can select <guilabel>All Desktops</guilabel> and the changes you make
will be applied to all desktops.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Preview Monitor</term>
<listitem>
<para>This is a preview window.  It will give you a sense of what to
expect with each change.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Background</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This section allows you to load a wallpaper on top of the color
gradient chosen in the section below.</para>

<para>There are three choices available here:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>No Picture</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>No picture background will be shown.  The color and pattern
choices below will still take effect.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Picture</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>A single picture will be used as the background for the selected
desktops.</para>
<para>How this picture is positioned and scaled can be fine tuned
below.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Slide show</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>&kde; allows you to have an automatic slide show of wallpaper
images. To enable this option, press the <guibutton>Setup...</guibutton>
button.  In the resulting dialog you may choose any
image or folder of images available on your computer, using the
<guibutton>Add...</guibutton> button to navigate your file system.
<guibutton>Remove</guibutton> will remove the currently selected
entry from the list.</para>

<para>You may choose the length of time any image is displayed in the
<guilabel>Change picture after:</guilabel> box, and you may choose
<guibutton>Show pictures in random order</guibutton> if you don't want
them displayed in the order they are listed.</para>

<tip><para>Displaying wallpaper requires that the image be kept in
memory.  If you are low on memory, using a small, tiled image or none
at all is recommended.</para>

<para>Scaling or centering a small image still requires an image the
size of your display to be maintained in memory.</para></tip>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Options</guilabel></term>
<listitem>

<variablelist><!-- Positioning -->
<title><guilabel>Position:</guilabel></title>
<varlistentry>
<term>Centered</term>
<listitem><para>The image will be centered on the screen without changing the
size of the image.  The background colors will be present anywhere the image
does not cover.</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Tiled</term>
<listitem><para>The image will be duplicated until it fills the entire
desktop. The first image will be placed in the upper left corner of the screen,
and duplicated downward and to the right.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Center Tiled</term>
<listitem><para>The image will be duplicated until it
fills the entire desktop. The first image will be placed in the center of the
screen, and duplicated upward, downward to the right, and to the left.</para>
</listitem></varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Centered Maxpect</term>
<listitem><para>The image will be placed in the center of the screen.  It will
be scaled to fit the desktop, but it will not change the aspect ratio of the
original image.  This will provide you with an image that is not distorted.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Tiled Maxpect</term>
<listitem>
<para>The image will be placed in the corner of the screen.  It will
be scaled to fit the desktop, but it will not change the aspect ratio
of the original image.  This will provide you with an image that is
not distorted.  If there is any space over, the image will be
duplicated to fill it.  </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Scaled</term>
<listitem><para>The image will be scaled to fit the desktop.  It will be
stretched to fit to all four corners.  This may distort the image.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Centered Auto fit</term>
<listitem>
<para>If the picture fits the desktop size, this mode works like the
centered option. If the picture is larger than the desktop then it is
scaled down to fit while keeping the aspect ratio.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Scale and Crop</term>
<listitem>
<para>Magnify the picture without distorting it until it fills both the
width and height of the desktop (cropping the picture if necessary), and
then center it on the desktop.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<variablelist><!-- Colors -->
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Colors:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>The first drop down box allows you to choose the type of color,
gradient, or pattern to display under (or in place of) wallpaper.</para>
<tip><para>If you are going to be using a picture as a wallpaper, you
can skip this section of the dialog box.</para>
<para>However, if your chosen wallpaper does not cover the entire
desktop, the chosen colors will still show in the remaining
space.</para></tip>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Single Color</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>By choosing this mode, you select one color using the
first color bar, and the entire background is covered with this one
color.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Horizontal Gradient</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>By choosing this mode, you select two colors (using both color
buttons).  &kde; will then start with the color selected by <guilabel>Primary
Color</guilabel> on the left edge of the screen, and slowly transform into the
color selected by <guilabel>Blend Color</guilabel> by the time it gets to the
right edge of the screen.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Vertical Gradient</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>By choosing this mode, you select two colors (using both color
buttons).  &kde; will then start with the color selected by <guilabel>Primary
Color</guilabel> on the top edge of the screen, and slowly transform into the
color selected by <guilabel>Blend Color</guilabel> as it moves to the bottom of
the screen.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Pyramid Gradient</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>By choosing this mode, you select two colors (using both color
buttons).  &kde; will then start with the color selected by
<guilabel>Primary Color</guilabel> in each
corner of the screen, and slowly transform into the color selected by
<guilabel>Blend Color</guilabel> as it moves to the center of the
screen.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Pipecross Gradient</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>By choosing this mode, you select two colors (using both color
buttons).  &kde; will then start with the color selected by
<guilabel>Primary Color</guilabel> in each corner of the screen, and slowly
transform into the color selected by <guilabel>Blend Color</guilabel>
as it moves to the center of the screen. The shape of
this gradient is different than the pyramid gradient.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Elliptic Gradient</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>By choosing this mode, you select two colors (using both color
buttons).  &kde; will then start with the color selected by
<guilabel>Blend Color</guilabel> in the center of the screen, and slowly
transform into the color selected by <guilabel>Primary Color</guilabel>
as it moves to the edges, in an elliptical pattern.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><replaceable>Pattern</replaceable></term>
<listitem>
<para>The rest of the list are the names of various patterns
or textures you can choose.</para>
<para>Click on
<guibutton>OK</guibutton>, and &kde; will render the pattern you
selected using the two colors you selected.  For more on patterns, see
the section <link linkend="bkgnd-patterns">Adding, Removing and
Modifying Patterns</link>.</para>

<para>Select the primary color with the first color bar.  If you have
chosen a pattern that requires two colors to be set the secondary
color can be set by pressing the appropriate button.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Blending:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>The drop down box labeled <guilabel>Blending:</guilabel> contains the
options to make a smooth transition (blend) from the wallpaper as it
changes to the background.</para>

<orderedlist>
<listitem><para>A drop down box allows you to select the blending mode.
Many of the modes are similar to blending modes for background colors.  Select
your mode from the list, and the preview window shows you what it will look
like.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>The <guilabel>Balance</guilabel> slider adjusts the
blending.  The results can be seen immediately in the preview
window.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>The <guilabel>Reverse roles</guilabel> can reverse the
role of the picture and the background for some types of
blending.</para>
</listitem>
</orderedlist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<sect2 id="bkgnd-advanced">
<title>Advanced options</title>
<para>Located below the preview monitor is a button labeled
<guibutton>Advanced Options</guibutton>.</para>

<para>To use an external program to determine and change the
background of &kde;, simply select <guilabel>Use the following program
for drawing the background</guilabel>.  Available &kde; programs are
listed, select one to enable it.  To modify your choice, for example
to change the refresh times, you may press the
<guibutton>Modify...</guibutton> button.</para>

<para>To add a third party application (&eg;
<application>XEarth</application>) you may use the
<guibutton>Add...</guibutton> button.  A dialog will open allowing you
to choose your application, and fill in other data about it.  You may
remove any entries from this list by selecting it and pressing the
<guibutton>Remove</guibutton> button.</para>

<para>Using third party external programs to modify or change the
background is beyond the scope of this document, see their respective
documentation for the format of command-line switches and other
configuration information.</para>

<para>Also in this section you may choose to set the color of text
that is used for icons on the desktop.  If you find icon text
difficult to read against a wallpaper or pattern, you can choose a
solid color to show beneath text, or enable a shadow under the text to
enhance its appearance.</para>

<para>It is possible to set how many lines of text will be shown beneath each icon with the <guilabel>Lines for icon text:</guilabel>   If the text is longer than can be shown in the configured number of lines, it will be truncated.  You can also set a value for the <guilabel>Width for icon text:</guilabel> option.  The value is in pixels, and the default is <guilabel>Auto</guilabel>, which is a default calculated based on the current font.
<!-- TODO: Find out what the actual calculation here is, in case someone needs it -->
</para>

<para>Finally you can set the <guilabel>Size of the background
cache:</guilabel>.  The default (2048 KB) is usually a safe
choice.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="bkgnd-patterns">
<title>Adding, Removing and Modifying Wallpapers and Patterns</title>

<para>There is a button under the preview monitor labelled <guibutton>Get
New Wallpapers</guibutton> that helps you fetch new wallpaper images from a
selection of popular images from the <ulink
url="http://www.kde-look.org">KDE-Look</ulink> website.  You can of course
select any image you have available to use as wallpaper, and it may be
stored in any location on your hard drive.  To have a wallpaper show up in
the list automatically for all users, you should save it to the <filename
class="directory">$<envar>KDEDIR</envar>/share/wallpapers</filename>
folder.</para>

<para>A pattern is a picture file which &kde; uses as a template to
draw your background.  The picture file provides the shapes, but &kde;
provides the colors.  &kde; is packaged with several patterns, and you also
can add new patterns.</para>

<para>To add a new pattern that is available to every user on your
computer, simply place the file in <filename
class="directory">$<envar>KDEDIR</envar>/share/apps/kdesktop/patterns/</filename>.</para>

<para>Copy a <literal role="extension">.desktop</literal> file from
this folder, and name it the same as your new pattern image file.
Modify the contents to suit your new pattern.</para>

<para>To add a new pattern for a single user, add the files to
<filename
class="directory">$<envar>KDEHOME</envar>/share/apps/kdesktop/patterns/</filename>.</para>

<para>For best results, the pattern should be a grayscale PNG file.</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>
