<chapter id="contact-the-kde-team">
<chapterinfo>
<date>2002-01-18</date>
<releaseinfo>3.00.00</releaseinfo>
</chapterinfo>
<title>Contact the &kde; team</title>
<anchor id="contact"/>

<sect1 id="contact-mailinglists">
<title>Mailing lists</title>

<para> &kde; has several mailing lists up. See below for some of the
most useful. Older articles can be found in the <ulink
url="http://lists.kde.org">mailing list archive</ulink>.</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><ulink url="http://mail.kde.org/mailman/listinfo/kde">kde</ulink></term>
<listitem><para>For general discussion, users helping each other.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><ulink url="http://mail.kde.org/mailman/listinfo/kde-announce">kde-announce</ulink></term>
<listitem><para>Announcements of new &kde; applications</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><ulink url="http://mail.kde.org/mailman/listinfo/kde-devel">kde-devel</ulink></term>
<listitem><para>For developers.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><ulink url="http://mail.kde.org/mailman/listinfo/kde-artists">kde-artists</ulink></term>
<listitem><para>Creating icons and other artwork</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><ulink url="http://mail.kde.org/mailman/listinfo/kde-doc-english">kde-doc-english</ulink></term>
<listitem><para>For people interested in writing documentation for &kde;.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><ulink url="http://mail.kde.org/mailman/listinfo/kde-i18n-doc">kde-i18n-doc</ulink></term>
<listitem><para>Internationalization and documentation issues</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><ulink url="http://l10n.kde.org/teams/">http://l10n.kde.org/teams/</ulink></term>
<listitem><para>For localized information, which may include user
email lists and websites, check the translation teams page at the
above &URL;.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="contact-developers">
<title>Contacting the &kde; developers</title>

<para>On this page, you can find links to &kde; related web sites.</para>

<para>The K Desktop Environment is developed by a large group of people
around the world. Our main communication channel is the Internet. For
general questions, you will be best served by asking on the mailing
lists mentioned in the <link linkend="contact-mailinglists">previous
section</link>, and contact addresses for individual developers can be
found in the documentation of their individual application.</para>

<para>Please visit our <ulink
url="http://www.kde.org/contact/representatives.php">Official
Representatives</ulink> page for official enquiries regarding &kde;
(&eg; interviews).</para>

<para>More information about &kde; is available at &kde-http;.</para>

<para><anchor id="links" />Other &kde; websites include:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><ulink url="http://www.kde.org">www.kde.org</ulink></term>
<listitem><para>&kde;'s official website</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><ulink url="http://developer.kde.org">developer.kde.org</ulink></term>
<listitem><para>The &kde; developers center</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><ulink url="http://websvn.kde.org">websvn.kde.org</ulink></term>
<listitem><para>A web interface to the &kde; Subversion repository</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><ulink url="http://l10n.kde.org">l10n.kde.org</ulink></term>
<listitem><para>&kde;'s internationalization and documentation server</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org">ftp.kde.org</ulink></term>
<listitem><para>The main &kde; &FTP; server. Please have a look at the link
below to find a mirror site in your geographic region.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><ulink
url="http://www.kde.org/mirrors">www.kde.org/mirrors</ulink></term> 
<listitem><para>&kde; web and &FTP; mirror sites</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><ulink url="http://www.kde-apps.org">www.kde-apps.org</ulink></term>
<listitem><para>A directory of &kde; applications.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><ulink url="http://www.kde-look.org">www.kde-look.org</ulink></term>
<listitem><para>&kde; themes, icons, and other items to change the
look of your desktop.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>
</chapter>
<!-- Keep this comment at the end of the file
Local variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag:t
sgml-shorttag:nil
sgml-namecase-general:t
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-parent-document:index.docbook
End:
-->

