<chapter id="supporting-kde">
<chapterinfo>
<date>2002-03-04</date>
<releaseinfo>2.02.00</releaseinfo>
</chapterinfo>
<title>Supporting &kde;</title>
<anchor id="support"/>

<sect1 id="supporting-kde-introduction">
<title>Supporting &kde;</title>

<para> If you are new to &kde;, the &kde; project might look like big
machinery to you. Undoubtedly, &kde; is no longer a small project,
nevertheless it is very important to realize that it is easy to
<quote>make a difference</quote> in the &kde; world.  </para>

<para> There is always a need for dedicated developers, graphic
artists, sound engineers, translators and documentation
writers. Consider jumping aboard this exciting international project
and make yourself a name in the software world.</para>

<para> Along the way you will make countless friends and acquaintances
all over the world. Also, the satisfaction that stems from doing
actual hands-on work, that will benefit an uncountable number of users
world-wide, and from seeing an unparalleled project grow, is hard to
beat. Please consider joining and supporting &kde; and hop aboard this
exciting journey towards a free and open alternative computing
platform.  </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="supporting-kde-get-started">
<title>How to get started</title>

<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para>
Subscribe to the <link linkend="contact">&kde; mailing lists</link>
that interest you.
</para></listitem>

<listitem><para>
Read the <ulink url="http://lists.kde.org">mailing list</ulink> archives in
order to get a feel for &kde; development.
</para></listitem>

<listitem><para>
Learn how to program using the &kde; application framework and join the
friendly &kde; developers' community.
</para></listitem>

</itemizedlist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="supporting-kde-financial-support">
<title>Supporting financially</title>

<para> The &kde; team is working very hard on providing you with the
best desktop available for the &UNIX; operating system. &kde; is
available for free and will always be available for free, including
each and every line of its source code, for everyone to modify and
distribute. If you enjoy and use &kde; please consider supporting the
&kde; Project financially.  &kde; is in constant need of funds in
order to finance its operations.  </para>

<para> If your busy schedule or skills do not permit you to be
actively involved in &kde; development, please consider supporting
&kde; financially by sending a donation to: </para>

<para> You can send regular US checks to the following address: </para>

<literallayout>
K Desktop Environment e.V.
Mirko Boehm
2029 Chadds Ford Drive
Reston, VA 20191
USA
</literallayout>

<para> Use "KDE e.V. - Mirko Boehm" in the "Pay to the order of..." line. 
</para>

<para>
From Europe, you may remit your donation to (be aware of a fee if wiring from outside of Germany): 
</para>

<literallayout>
K Desktop Environment e.V.
Account-Nr. 0 66 64 46
BLZ 200 700 24
Deutsche Bank 24
</literallayout>

<para> Please contact Mirko Boehm
<email>kde-ev-treasurer@kde.org</email> if you have any questions.  </para>

<para> Your contribution is very much appreciated. Thank you!  </para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

