<article lang="&language;" id="print">
<title>print</title>
<articleinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Kurt.Pfeifle; &Kurt.Pfeifle.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->

</authorgroup>

<date>2002-06-23</date>
<releaseinfo>1.00.00</releaseinfo>

</articleinfo>

<para>The <acronym>print</acronym> KIOSlave gives quick access to browse
different &kdeprint; sections via <quote>virtual folders</quote>.
These folders provide some information about and quick access to your print 
subsystem.</para>

<para><command>print:/</command> represents one more of those useful 
KIOSlaves implemented by &kde;. To access it, just type  <userinput>print:/
 </userinput> into the address field of &konqueror;. <userinput>print:/
 </userinput>  doesn't purely provide <quote>read-only</quote> access to
 your print subsystem, but it also allows you to change settings
 of your printers, of your print system and lets you create new printers
 and classes.</para>

<para>You are asked for the Administrator or root password, if you are
not allowed a view or an operation as a normal user.</para>

<para>You can bookmark frequently used shortcuts like
 <command>print:/manager</command></para>

<para>Valid syntax is either
<userinput>print:/[path-to-virtual-folder]</userinput> or
<userinput>print:[path-to-virtual-folder]</userinput></para>

<para>Note, that some of the views and actions offered do heavily
 depend on the print subsystem that is installed on your box and presently
activated for  &kde;. Pages showing printer information display only
those parts that are valid for the &kde; selected print subsystem.
(So if you normally run <acronym>CUPS</acronym>, but switched temporarily to 


 <quote>Generic UNIX LPD Printing</quote>, which is possible, you will see  
less printer info, because LPD is not capable of using the same amount of  
print settings as are possible in CUPS).</para>

<para>Valid syntax to access different virtual folders
and a short explanation of what they represent:</para>

<variablelist>
<title>Some examples</title>

<varlistentry>
<term><userinput>print:/ </userinput> (&ie; the root of 
print-kioslave)</term>
<listitem>
<para>  virtual root for browsing your print subsystem.
        It displays subfolders <quote>Classes</quote>,
	<quote>Jobs</quote>,
	<quote>Manager</quote>, <quote>Printers</quote>, 
        and <quote>Specials</quote></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><userinput>print:/classes</userinput> or
<userinput>print:classes </userinput>
</term> <listitem>
<para> view your printer classes
       (supported by and useful for CUPS only)
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term><userinput>print:/classes/class_name </userinput> or
 <userinput>print:classes/class_name </userinput> </term> <listitem>
<para>view all members of the named
      printer class (supported by and useful only
      for CUPS) </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term><userinput>print:/jobs </userinput> 
or <userinput>print:jobs </userinput></term>
<listitem>
<para> lists the current and pending jobs. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><userinput>print:/printers </userinput>
or <userinput>print:printers </userinput></term>
<listitem>
<para> lists all your printers. Clicking
       on a printer name shows more info about that printer.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><userinput>print:/printers/printer_name </userinput>
or <userinput>print:printers/printer_name </userinput> </term>
<listitem>
<para>displays useful info about the named
      printer </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><userinput>print:/manager </userinput> or
<userinput>print:manager </userinput>
</term> <listitem>
<para>opens a page very similar to the &kdeprint;
      Manager module inside the  &kde; Control Center.
      Switch to a different printing system here or do every
      other administrative task. </para>
<para>This is the most important of access points to your printing
      system. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><userinput>print:/specials </userinput> or
<userinput>print:specials </userinput>
</term><listitem>
<para>lists all presently available <quote>special printers</quote>:
       Likely you'll see:</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
        <para>The two that let you save a printfile to disk, in
                 &PostScript; or <acronym>PDF</acronym> format.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
        <para>One that sends it as a <acronym>PDF</acronym> attachment via 
&kmail;.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
        <para>And last, send it via fax, if you have one of the
                 supported fax backends active, 
<application>Hylafax</application> or 
<application>efax</application>.</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

<tip><para>You can also put <command>print:/manager</command>
 or similar as the command in
 the <quote>Quick Command</quote> utility (started via
<keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>F2</keycap></keycombo>)</para></tip>

<para>You can learn more about printing and &kdeprint;'s powerful abilities
by reading the <ulink url="help:/kdeprint/index.html">&kdeprint; Handbook
locally</ulink> or at the <ulink url="http://printing.kde.org/">&kdeprint;
Website</ulink> where there are documents online (<acronym>HTML</acronym> and 
<acronym>PDF</acronym>),containing
<ulink 
url="http://printing.kde.org/documentation/tutorials/">Tutorials</ulink>,
 as well as <ulink url="http://printing.kde.org/faq/">FAQs</ulink> and
 Tips and Tricks related to printing in general.</para>

</article>
