<sect1 id="internet-keywords">
<sect1info>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<personname>
<firstname>Simon</firstname>
<surname>Vermeersch</surname>
</personname>
<email>titeuf@ph34rus.org</email>
</author>
</authorgroup>
</sect1info>

<title>Internet Shortcuts</title>

<indexterm><primary>Web shortcuts</primary></indexterm>
<indexterm><primary>Internet Shortcuts</primary></indexterm>
<indexterm><primary>gg:</primary></indexterm>

<para>Internet shortcuts are a really useful feature of &konqueror;:
once you get used to them, you'll wonder how you ever lived without them.</para>

<para>To see what internet shortcuts are, open up &konqueror; and type
<userinput>gg:kde</userinput> in the <guilabel>Location</guilabel>
bar.</para>

<para>You will go to Google, searching for &kde;.</para> 

<para>They are many such shortcuts like <userinput>ggl:</userinput> (Google
I'm feeling lucky), <userinput>bug:</userinput> (bugs.kde.org) and so
on.</para>

<para>To get a full list, click on <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> in the
&konqueror; menu, and select <guilabel>Web Shortcuts</guilabel>. Here you will find a full list of all the shortcuts. You can create
new ones, change existing ones, or delete unused shortcuts. You can also
disable web shortcuts if you don't like them. If you set the <guilabel>Default
search engine</guilabel>, you don't have to type the shortcut anymore. For
instance if you set it to Google, you can just type
<userinput>kde</userinput> in the <guilabel>Location</guilabel> bar,
and it will search Google for <quote>&kde;</quote>.</para>

<para>In <guilabel>Keyword delimiter</guilabel> you can choose if you want
to separate a shortcut with a colon (<userinput>gg: kde</userinput>) or a
space (<userinput>gg kde</userinput>).</para>

<para>A nice tip with Internet shortcuts is that you can use them from the
<guilabel>Run Command</guilabel> dialog. Just open it (through the &kmenu;
or with <keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>F2</keycap></keycombo>) and
type your shortcut, &eg; <userinput>gg: kde</userinput>, and press
&Enter;. It will automatically open &konqueror; with a Google
search for &kde;.</para>

<!-- Add links to "further reading" here -->
<!-- <itemizedlist>
<title>Related Information</title>
<listitem><para>to be written</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>-->



</sect1>

<!-- Keep this comment at the end of the file
Local variables:
mode: xml
sgml-omittag:nil
sgml-shorttag:nil
sgml-namecase-general:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:true
sgml-parent-document:("index.docbook" "book" "sect1")
sgml-exposed-tags:nil
sgml-local-catalogs:nil
sgml-local-ecat-files:nil
End:
-->
