<chapter id="kde-edutainment">
<!-- Uncomment this and add your name in order to be credited for
writing this section
<chapterinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author>
Your name here
</author>
</authorgroup>
</chapterinfo>
-->

<title>&kde; Edutainment</title>

<para>The &kde; Edutainment Project offers children, families, and teachers some
educational programs. You can find applications to help you improve
your language skills and train your vocabulary, like &kvoctrain; and
&kwordquiz;; or Scientific programs, like the
very advanced &kstars; (a planetarium) and &kig; (interactive
geometry), which will bring you to the edge of knowledge. Have fun learning
touch-typing with &ktouch;. Teachers will find an easy way to make
their lessons with &keduca;.  You can find a complete list of &kde;
educational software on <ulink url="http://edu.kde.org">the KDE-Edu
website</ulink>. What follows is an overview of a few of them.
</para>
<para>View the handbook of each application by typing <userinput>help:/&lt;appname&gt;</userinput> in &konqueror;'s Location Toolbar, or by selecting it in &khelpcenter;. </para>

<sect1 id="languages">
<title>Improve your language skills</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>&khangman;</term>
	<listitem><para>An easy-to-use application which implements the classical hangman game. You can choose for the words to be from a particular topic and even choose from a selection of difficulty levels. The program comes in twenty-four languages, and is therefore quite ideal for learning the spelling of basic nouns in other languages.</para>
	
		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem><para>Website: <ulink url="http://edu.kde.org/khangman">http://edu.kde.org/khangman</ulink></para></listitem>
			<listitem><para><ulink
	url="help:/khangman">&khangman; Handbook</ulink></para></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
		
	</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>&klettres;</term>
	<listitem><para>An application specially designed to help the user learn the alphabet of a new language and then to learn to read simple syllables. Ideal for children, or any person attempting to learn and familiarize themselves with a foreign language's alphabet. A number of alphabets are currently supported.</para>
	
		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem><para>Website: <ulink url="http://edu.kde.org/klettres">http://edu.kde.org/klettres</ulink></para></listitem>
			<listitem><para><ulink
	url="help:/klettres">&klettres; Handbook</ulink></para></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
		
	</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>&kanagram;</term>
	<listitem><para>A simple mind-training game, in which you have to figure out the word that has been given in the program. The letters from the word are disordered, and from the given words you have to solve which word the letters might make, if rearranged. Similar to the popular Countdown game as seen on Television.</para>
	
		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem><para>Website: <ulink url="http://edu.kde.org/kanagram">http://edu.kde.org/kanagram</ulink></para></listitem>
			<listitem><para><ulink
	url="help:/kanagram">&kanagram; Handbook</ulink></para></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
		
	</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>&kverbos;</term>
	<listitem><para>A simple way to learn and study Spanish verb forms. The program suggests a verb and a tense and the user enters the different forms. The program corrects the user input and gives feedback.  The user can edit the list of the verbs that can be studied and the program can build regular verb forms, and the forms of the most important verb groups, by itself. Irregular verb forms can be entered by the user.</para>
	
		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem><para>Website: <ulink url="http://edu.kde.org/kverbos">http://edu.kde.org/kverbos</ulink></para></listitem>
			<listitem><para><ulink
	url="help:/kverbos">&kverbos; Handbook</ulink></para></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
		
	</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>&kvoctrain;</term>
	<listitem><para>Another advanced vocabulary training application, using the flash card approach. <ulink url="http://edu.kde.org/contrib/kvtml.php">Vocabulary files</ulink> can be downloaded and loaded into the application.</para>
	
		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem><para>Website: <ulink url="http://edu.kde.org/kvoctrain">http://edu.kde.org/kvoctrain</ulink></para></listitem>
			<listitem><para><ulink
	url="help:/kvoctrain">&kvoctrain; Handbook</ulink></para></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
		
	</listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term>&kiten;</term>
	<listitem><para>A Japanese reference and learning tool. Words from both English and Japanese can be looked up, and filtered, using the <application>Edict</application> and <application>Kanjidic</application> dictionary protocols. Other features in &kiten; include a few comprehensive search functions, a history of searches, and a learning section which contains various different learning modes.</para>
	
		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem><para>Website: <ulink url="http://edu.kde.org/kiten">http://edu.kde.org/kiten</ulink></para></listitem>
			<listitem><para><ulink
	url="help:/kiten">&kiten; Handbook</ulink></para></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
		
	</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>&klatin;</term>
	<listitem><para>A program to help revise Latin. There are vocabulary, grammar, and verb testing sections. In addition there is a set of revision notes that can be used for self-guided revision.</para>
	
		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem><para>Website: <ulink url="http://edu.kde.org/klatin">http://edu.kde.org/klatin</ulink></para></listitem>
			<listitem><para><ulink
	url="help:/klatin">&klatin; Handbook</ulink></para></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
		
	</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="mathematics">
<title>Mathematics</title>

<para>Several applications to help you with Mathematics and Geometry.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>&kbruch;</term>
	<listitem><para>An application with several exercise types in order to enhance your calculating with fractions. Different tasks include exercises to find the sum of two fractions, the conversion of fractions into the respective decimal, the comparison (with less than, more than) of fractions, and more. </para>
	
		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem><para>Website: <ulink url="http://edu.kde.org/kbruch">http://edu.kde.org/kbruch</ulink></para></listitem>
			<listitem><para><ulink
	url="help:/kbruch">&kbruch; Handbook</ulink></para></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
		
	</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>&kig;</term>
	<listitem><para>A great application with interactive geometry. Ideal for teachers attempting to draw a graph on the computer, or students who wish to find out more and investigate with graphs and curves. Currently many things are supported, and you can very easily construct several things from parabolas and hyperbolas, to ellipses. </para>
	
		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem><para>Website: <ulink url="http://edu.kde.org/kig">http://edu.kde.org/kig</ulink></para></listitem>
			<listitem><para><ulink
	url="help:/kig">&kig; Handbook</ulink></para></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
		
	</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>&kpercentage;</term>
	<listitem><para>Essentially an application to help you improve your skills in calculating percentages. Different exercises are included, and there are varying difficulty levels to target persons with varying abilities.</para>
	
		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem><para>Website: <ulink url="http://edu.kde.org/kpercentage">http://edu.kde.org/kpercentage</ulink></para></listitem>
			<listitem><para><ulink
	url="help:/kpercentage">&kpercentage; Handbook</ulink></para></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
		
	</listitem>

</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>&kmplot;</term>
	<listitem><para>A mathematical function plotter. It has built in a powerful parser. You can plot different functions simultaneously and combine their function terms to build new functions. &kmplot; supports functions with parameters and functions in polar coordinates. Several grid modes are possible and plots may be printed with high precision in correct scale.</para>
	
		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem><para>Website: <ulink url="http://edu.kde.org/kmplot">http://edu.kde.org/kmplot</ulink></para></listitem>
			<listitem><para><ulink
	url="help:/kmplot">&kmplot; Handbook</ulink></para></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
		
	</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>


</sect1>
<sect1 id="science">
<title>Science</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>&kstars;</term>
	<listitem><para>A desktop Planetarium for &kde;. It provides an accurate graphical simulation of the night sky, from any location on Earth, at any date and time. The display includes 130,000 stars, 13,000 deep-sky objects, all 8 planets, the Sun and Moon, and thousands of comets and asteroids.</para>
	
		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem><para>Website: <ulink url="http://edu.kde.org/kstars">http://edu.kde.org/kstars</ulink></para></listitem>
			<listitem><para><ulink
	url="help:/kstars">&kstars; Handbook</ulink></para></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
		
	</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
	<term>&kalzium;</term>
	<listitem><para>A fully-featured periodic table application. It features a full list of all elements, and extended information about each individual element. As well as being able to view a basic overview, other features include being able to view its chemical data, atomic model, energies, as well as a picture of the element.</para>
		
		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem><para>Website: <ulink url="http://edu.kde.org/kalzium">http://edu.kde.org/kalzium</ulink></para></listitem>
			<listitem><para><ulink url="help:/kalzium">&kalzium; Handbook</ulink></para></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
		
	</listitem>

<!-- Screeny! -->
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="teaching_tools">
<title>Teaching Tools</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
	<term>&keduca;</term>
	<listitem><para>A flash card application, which allows you to make interactive form-based tests. It also currently comes with support to add servers from which you can fetch tests. Several languages supported.</para>
		
		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem><para>Website: <ulink url="http://edu.kde.org/keduca">http://edu.kde.org/keduca</ulink></para></listitem>
			<listitem><para><ulink url="help:/keduca">&keduca; Handbook</ulink></para></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
		
	</listitem>

<!-- Screeny! -->
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="miscellaneous">
<title>Miscellaneous</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
	<term>&ktouch;</term>
	<listitem><para>An application for learning touch-typing. &ktouch; displays the keyboard on the screen, and the color of the keys changes when they need to be depressed. Text appears on the screen, and the user is asked to type it out. A few lectures are contained in the program by default, with various different difficulty levels.</para>
		
		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem><para>Website: <ulink url="http://edu.kde.org/ktouch">http://edu.kde.org/ktouch</ulink></para></listitem>
			<listitem><para><ulink url="help:/ktouch">&ktouch; Handbook</ulink></para></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
		
	</listitem>

<!-- Screeny! -->
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
	<term>&kwordquiz;</term>
	<listitem><para>A flash card application, which allows you to make interactive form-based tests. It also currently comes with support to add servers from which you can fetch tests from. Several languages supported.</para>
		
		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem><para>Website: <ulink url="http://edu.kde.org/kwordquiz">http://edu.kde.org/kwordquiz</ulink></para></listitem>
			<listitem><para><ulink url="help:/kwordquiz">&kwordquiz; Handbook</ulink></para></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
		
	</listitem>

</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
	<term>&kturtle;</term>
	<listitem><para>An educational programming environment using the Logo programming language, with several languages currently supported.</para>
		
		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem><para>Website: <ulink url="http://edu.kde.org/kturtle">http://edu.kde.org/kturtle</ulink></para></listitem>
			<listitem><para><ulink url="help:/kturtle">&kturtle; Handbook</ulink></para></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
		
	</listitem>

</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
	<term><application>&kgeography;</application></term>
	<listitem><para>&kgeography; is a geography learning tool for &kde;. You can browse the maps by clicking in a map division to see its name and you can also answer several types of questions where the program shows you a map division or a capital for example and you have to guess its name.</para>
		
		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem><para>Website: <ulink url="http://kgeography.berlios.de/">http://kgeography.berlios.de/</ulink> and <ulink url="http://edu.kde.org/kgeography">http://edu.kde.org/kgeography</ulink></para></listitem>
			<listitem><para><ulink url="help:/kgeography"><application>&kgeography;</application> Handbook</ulink></para></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
		
	</listitem>

</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
	<term><application>&blinken;</application></term>
	<listitem><para>&blinken; is a Simon Says game for &kde;. The player should remember the sequence of lights in the correct order and is then presented with an identical sequence with one extra step.</para>
		
		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem><para>Website: <ulink url="http://edu.kde.org/blinken">http://edu.kde.org/blinken</ulink></para></listitem>
			<listitem><para><ulink url="help:/blinken"><application>&blinken;</application> Handbook</ulink></para></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
		
	</listitem>

</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="edu-related">
<title>Related Information</title>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>The &kde;-Edu website at <ulink
url="http://edu.kde.org">http://edu.kde.org</ulink> has news and
information about all the &kde; Edutainment applications.</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect1>


</chapter>

<!-- Keep this comment at the end of the file
Local variables:
mode: xml
sgml-omittag:nil
sgml-shorttag:nil
sgml-namecase-general:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:true
sgml-parent-document:("index.docbook" "book" "chapter")
sgml-exposed-tags:nil
sgml-local-catalogs:nil
sgml-local-ecat-files:nil
End:
-->
