<sect1 id="networking-with-windows">
<sect1info>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Gardner</firstname>
<surname>Bell</surname>
</author>
</authorgroup>
</sect1info>


<title>Networking With Windows</title>

<para> This section is borrowed and modified from Alexander Neundorf's
README file on LISa.</para>

<para>&kde; features two powerful servers called the Lan Information
Server (<application>LISa</application>) and Restricted Lan
Information Server (<application>resLISa</application>) which are used
to identify CIFS and other servers on your local network providing a
function similar to <quote>Network Neighbourhood</quote> in
&Microsoft; &Windows;.</para>

<sect2 id="How-It-Works">
<title>How It Works</title>

<para>&lisa; only depends on the TCP/IP stack so samba configuration is not
required to make it work but the <ulink
url="http://www.samba.org">samba</ulink> package is a dependency.  To find
hosts on your local network you set a range of IP-Addresses in your
configuration file that &lisa; will check.  When you start the &lisa; daemon
it will send a <ulink url="http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc792.txt">ICMP</ulink>,
echo request message to all the IP addresses given in the configuration file
and await a response.</para>

<note><para>The &lisa; daemon requires root privileges to open the socket,
but once the socket has been established root privileges are immediately
dropped.</para></note>

<para>You can also execute &lisa; using <command>nmblookup
<option>"*"</option></command>.<note><para>If you do not have the
<command>nmblookup</command> program it can be found at <ulink
url="http://www.samba.org">http://www.samba.org</ulink> or through packages
provided by your distribution</para></note>.  The samba command
<command>nmblookup <option>"*"</option></command> will send a broadcast
message to the attached network and any host that is running the
smb-services will send a reply stating that it is accepting
connections.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="resLISa">
<title><application>resLISa</application></title>

<para>If your company network has very strict guidelines governing what
ports can and cannot be opened you will have to use &reslisa; to communicate
with other hosts on your network.  Because &reslisa; cannot ping entire
networks or address ranges you will have to add each host by name to your
confiuration file.  Currently you are able to add up to 64 hosts, and these
addresses are pingable.</para>

<note><para>&reslisa; will only provide the information over a &UNIX; domain
socket, &ie; not over the network.  The name of the socket is
<filename>/tmp/resLISa-<replaceable>YourLoginName</replaceable></filename>,
so &reslisa; can be safely run on the same machine by more than one
user.</para></note>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="configuration">
<title>Configuration</title>

<para>At startup &lisa; first parses the configuration file in the users
home directory under <filename>$<envar>HOME</envar>/.lisarc</filename>.  If
this file does not exist &lisa; will then look for a system wide
confiuration located at <filename>/etc/lisarc</filename>.  Now for a sample
example configuration file:</para>

<programlisting>
PingAddresses = 192.168.100.0/255.255.255.0;192.168.100.10-192.168.199.19;192.168.200.1;
PingNames = my_host1;my_host2    #Hosts by name (required for <application>resLISa</application>)
AllowedAddresses = 192.168.0.0/255.255.0.0
BroadcastNetwork = 192.168.100.0/255.255.255.0
SearchUsingNmblookup = 1         #also try nmblookup
FirstWait = 30                   #30 one-hundredth's of a second
SecondWait = -1                  #Only try once
#SecondWait = 60                 #Try twice and wait 0.6 seconds
UpdatePeriod = 300               #Update every 300 sec's
DeliverUnnamedHosts = 0          #Don't publish unnamed hosts
MaxPingsAtOnce = 256             #Send up to 256 ICMP echo requests at once
</programlisting>

<para>&lisa; can also be configured graphically in the
<menuchoice><guimenuitem>&kcontrolcenter;</guimenuitem><guisubmenu>Internet
&amp; Network</guisubmenu><guimenuitem>Local Network Browsing</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice> item in the &kmenu;.  However, to use this option &lisa; must
be started with the <option>-K</option> command line switch.</para>

<!--TODO add a section explaining graphical configuration? -->

<!-- Add links to "further reading" here -->
<itemizedlist>
<title>Related Information</title>
<listitem><para>For a full list of command line switches and further
examples see the entire &lisa; manual by entering
<userinput>help:/lisa</userinput> in &konqueror;.</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>


</sect2>
</sect1>

<!-- Keep this comment at the end of the file
Local variables:
mode: xml
sgml-omittag:nil
sgml-shorttag:nil
sgml-namecase-general:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:true
sgml-parent-document:("index.docbook" "book" "sect1")
sgml-exposed-tags:nil
sgml-local-catalogs:nil
sgml-local-ecat-files:nil
End:
-->
