<sect1 id="switching-sessions">

<sect1info>
<author>
<personname>
<firstname>Christian</firstname>
<surname>Weickhmann</surname>
</personname>
<email>christian.weickhmann@gmx.de</email>
</author>
</sect1info>


<title>Switching Sessions</title>

<para>From version 3.3 onwards, &kde; provides a session management
system which allows you to switch between different user account on
one computer. You can stay logged in and &eg; let your sister,
brother, wife, neigbour or whoever read her or his emails just for a
moment. Before you had to log off (therefore &eg; close programs or
save documents) and let her or him log in.</para>

<para>Now it's almost as easy as switching to another virtual desktop.</para>

<variablelist>
<title>Switching Sessions: How it works</title>

<varlistentry>
<term>The <guimenuitem>Switch User</guimenuitem> Menu</term>
<listitem>
<para>The &kmenu; now bears a new entry. Rather at the bottom of the menu
you will find a <guisubmenu>Switch User</guisubmenu> submenu. It contains
the command to lock the current and start a new session which means that
your desktop will start the screensaver and after a few seconds can log in
with KDM as always. The <guimenuitem>Start New Session</guimenuitem> entry
skips the activation of your screensaver.</para>

<para>Once you have running more than one session you can either choose to
press <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Alt;<keycap>F7</keycap></keycombo>
 or <keycap>F8</keycap> and so on (what is usually configured by default) or
&mdash; even more comfortable &mdash; choose from the list of active
sessions at the bottom of the <guisubmenu>Switch User</guisubmenu>
submenu.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Switch User with the screensaver</term>
<listitem><para>If you have activated your screensaver and another user
wants to log in she or he can simply press the <guibutton>Switch
User...</guibutton> button and log into another session.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Switch Session in &kdm;</term>
<listitem><para>If you are in &kdm; and want to switch to another active
session you can press the <guibutton>Menu</guibutton> button and choose
<guisubmenu>Switch User</guisubmenu> which is mainly the same as described
above.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<!-- Add links to "further reading" here -->
<!-- <itemizedlist>
<title>Related Information</title>
<listitem><para>to be written</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist> -->



</sect1>

<!-- Keep this comment at the end of the file
Local variables:
mode: xml
sgml-omittag:nil
sgml-shorttag:nil
sgml-namecase-general:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:true
sgml-parent-document:("index.docbook" "book" "sect1")
sgml-exposed-tags:nil
sgml-local-catalogs:nil
sgml-local-ecat-files:nil
End:
-->
